---
title: "The Elements of Computing Systems - Introduction"
date: 2019-12-21
category: computerscience
tags:
  - Summary
---

# Hello World

Ah yes, *Hello World*, the first program every novice programmer begins with. Really its a tradition, and it's purpose is simple. Show the programmer that you can instruct the computer to do things! But what's really going on here? 

# Behind the kitchen doors

You can think of a typical program file as static characters in a text file, meaning they themselves aren't really doing anything. Really it's just a human way of modulating computational functions. To make things happen, the computer must **parse** the text. Parse is an interesting word - it sounds very cyberpunk. Really all it means is to analyze into parts and describe their roles in terms of **syntax**. As any programmer knows, syntax refers to structure versus semantics refers to the meaning of the structure.  Once structure has been defined, then the computer will look and understand the semantics. If it makes sense, our language will be compiled! This is essentially converting what we wrote to a lower level language that the computer understands. This does in fact create another text file, which however contains machine-level code. Next hardware architecture realizes this code, via chip sets : consisting of registers, memory units, ALU and more. At the base level, each hardware device is made from elementary logic gates, which themselves are build from smaller gates like Nand and Nor, which are built from switching devices, usually transistors. And guess what? It goes even further! Don't worry if your a little overwhelmed here, because it is a lot. But you have to realize the power of looking at things in a modular fashion. If you can keep breaking down something you don't understand, like a computer, into its smallest parts, you can keep building upon that to understand it as a whole.

# The transistor

Really you don't need to know this if your in computer science, but I've always believed that knowledge is power. You will have an edge if you know more than the other person. Albeit this is moreso engineering than comp sci, I think it's still beneficial to understand. I still want to issue a fair warning, since there will be some physics involved. 

What's the purpose of a transistor? It's to amplify or switch signals. These are categorized as semiconductor devices, essentially a device in an electronic system used to affect electrons or electron fields through the properties of semiconductor materials. The material, silicon for an example, is able to move a charge through its crystal lattice via quantum physics. They aren't totally conductors, which allow electric currents and aren't totally insulators, which don't allow electron currents. What allows electrical conductivity then, i.e. electric currents to flow? Well, you have to understand how electrons are found. They can either be localized or delocalized, in reference to their association with bonds or atoms. If conductivity happens, electrons in the material are delocalized. But for conductivity to actually happen, we have to think about quantum physics. Basically, in quantum physics, we think about the environment we are working with as in a state. The state simply defines what's going on at the moment in a system that we are working with. So it tells us the possible outcomes for a measurable value. In electricity, we use the state terminology in terms of our electrons. Their quantum states can be 0, or 1 (I won't explain why, but just take this as fact. If you're interested, look up the Pauli exclusion principle). Because electrons in semiconducting material are delocalized, meaning they move freely, then that means they can or can not occupy an electron state. This means that sometimes they are 11, and sometimes they are 0. Because of this property, states are going to be partially filled, and this allows other electrons to fill the state. So when a semiconducting material is good in conducting electic flow, electons will be delocalized, and states partially filled. 

In its natural state, a semiconductor's electrons are found in either the valence band or conducting bands. In pure silicon, for electrons to move to the conduction band, which we want, it needs to absorb energy, so it has a low electrical conductivity. Normally we do something called doping to the semiconductor material. You essentially inject foreign material into the material to change how electrons move. In N-type doping, phosphorus is incorporated, which will have an extra electron in comparison to the bonds that need to be filled in the silicon material. As such, you have one freely moving electron. In P-type doping, boron is incorporated, which will have a vacent electron position. This means a neighbouroung electron can fill the vacancy.

Lets talk about diodes. basically you have a silicon material split into p-type and n-type doping. Where these two sides meet, the n-type electrons move into the p-type, making the n-type side positive and the p-type side negative. This also results in a depletion layer, where the middle is void of holes and electrons. As a result, the end of the p-type side is negative and the n-type side is positive. Now if you add a power source, with the negative side on the p-type side and positive on the n-type side, this will attract electrons and holes, increasing the size of the depletion layer. They call this reverse biasing. Forward biasing involves flipping the power source, so charges are opposite. Now, because the p-type side is hooked up to a positive charge, you get electron movement towards this side, and as a consequence, n-type electrons fill in vacancies. This essentially creates electron flow.

In a transistor, there are two diodes sandwhiched, where they meet together such that one p-type is in the middle. In this way, one diode will always be blocking the flow of electricity, so its off! So how do we turn it on? We need another power supply, and we need to add it to the diode that is in forward bias. We add another battery that is in forward bias, but only attached to this diode. As a result, you get electron flow as you would in forward bias, but because the other diode is in reverse bias, the n-type side will have a positive charge, attracting the electrons from the other side, and this turns the transistor on. So base current is emitted and then amplified by the collector current. This is a bipolar junction transistor. So how do we use this? Well if there is enough voltage in the power supply, you can turn it on, as you can overcome barrier potential. If there isn't, then you can't, and it is off!
