---
title: "The Elements of Computing Systems - Introduction to the Topic"
date: 2019-08-14
category: command-line
tags:
  - Summary
---

In 2005, Nisan and Schocken wrote quite the piece of literature on how a computer works. The basic ideas will be discussed over 13 posts (hopefully), in a series dubbed, "The Elements of Computing Systems" 

#Why?

If you're going to learn command-line or frankly any level of programming, you have to realize at some point that what you know is not enough. Long gone are the days when you had to understand the system from the ground up. That's not necessarily a bad thing, since the barrier to enter the tech field has greatly lowered. But it's like driving a 70 Plymouth Roadrunner, but never taking it to the track. Sure you may know where to put the gas and to make it go forward and reverse, but do you know how to push every bit of power out of that car? Have you *felt* the moment when your skill surpasses the knowledge of the average man. In anycase, if you want to take yourself to the next level, you have to understand how the engine works. And that's what we aim to do with this series.

#What you'll learn

This is an excellent book I recommend everyone reads, but for those that can't afford it, this series is a briefly summarized version of the text. It goes over boolean logic and arithetmic, sequential logic, machine language, computer architecture, the assembler, the virtual machine, high-level language, the compiler, and the OS. As Nisan and Schocken say "we believe the best way to understand how computers work is to build one from scratch"