--- 
title: Lost
date: 2020-06-17 22:42 -0400
category: blog
---

## Preface
Don't taken anything I've written here too seriously. I'm just rambling about how I feel today, and how I've felt many days. Sometimes it's better to say how you feel rather than bottle it up. I felt like writing it so that's what I'm doing it. To anyone who stumbles upon this and feels lost in their life as well let me offer this piece of advice.

*My TLDR for this is that life is hard and sometimes we need to feel lost as sort of a soft reset. You've lost direction in your life, but there's any easy fix. Find a new direction and follow it wherever it may lead. They say it's the journey, not the destination, but if you never set out on the journey, will there ever be a destination? That's just my convuluted way of saying go for that thing you think isn't possible. Push on while others say you can't do it. But keep moving. You'll get there.*

## That feeling

I've felt this feeling before in my life, but none as strong as this time. It's that feeling everybody gets, probably around their 20's of feeling like there's no direction anymore, like you were the passenger and now suddenly your the driver. Have you ever felt like that? For me that time is now. It's the feeling where you don't know what to do, or what to feel, because you feel senseless, or rather **lost**. 

## The Future

From our early childhood to our late teens, it seems like our seniors instill a sense of dread regarding the future and its grim reality. We live in innocence, some out of ignorance, and to others in the unknown. I felt like the former, pushing away the idea of what reality meant and simply took on what anyone takes on.

## Direction

You often hear about the uniqueness of every human being, but then you look at your life and compare it to others and think, what have I done different? Elementary, public, secondary, post-secondary school, job, marriage, kids, repeat. I myself am not quite past job just yet, let alone at it, but sometimes I just look at this path and think, is this what my life has planned for me? Is this it? It's weird to question it because with a sense of direction, you feel fullfilled. As they say, it's the journey not the destination. But it's hard to come grips with this. It's harsh. Bitter. Cold even. But it's necessary. Direction tells you where to go, even if it doesn't make sense. 

## A goal

I think feeling lost is something that should happen to everyone. It makes you question what you're doing. "Is this the right path?". "Should I be doing this?". It's like a soft reset. Something in our brains is telling us that if we seek happiness, we need to keep moving forward. Try to do something new. Work on a skill. Work on yourself. Make yourself busy, but with a goal in mind. As long as you re-establish that direction, even if it's not something grandiose, or even others think is not worthwhile commit. In the end, you may find yourself in a better place then before. Or maybe you don't. But I think doing something, is better than doing nothing. So get to it

## If you need some peace

It may sound backwards, but I think when you feel lost, it's good to empty your mind and relax a bit. Personally I like to go for a walk, without my phone (no music, no texts, no nothing), and just isolate myself to my favorite spot in the city. Nature usually hits the spot. Try it out! 